In this video we'll learn about some of the C++ stream manipulators C++ streams have many useful member
methods that can be used to control formatting.
There are methods that work on input and output streams but formatting output is much more common and
important concept to understand is that when we manipulate a stream for formatting sometimes the settings
we make will be set for the remainder of the program.
Other times they'll only affect the next object placed on the stream and sometimes her effect is immediate.
When we go over the individual formatting method to manipulators I'll show you the fecht each one has
as well as how long the effect lasts.
Most of the stream formatters come in two versions a method version and a manipulator version the method
version is simply a method call that you use with a stream object.
For example see outdoors with 10.
I'll explain what this does in a later section.
But for now you can see the syntax it's calling the width method on the C out object.
There's also a manipulator version which is designed to be used in line as a stream insertion.
In this case set w 10 as you probably guessed the manipulator versions are simply overloading the insertion
operator to make this easier to use to use the manipulators you must include IO manip.
The code will write will focus mainly on manipulator usage but I'll also show you how to use the methods
in the next few videos.
I will go over some of the most commonly used stream manipulators.
Here's a preview.
We'll first start by looking at formatting boolean types.
We've already seen this used in the course and a few places we can use bool Alpha and noble Alpha to
display boolean values as either the strings.
True or false or the integers 1 and 0 then we'll look at formatting integer types.
These manipulators allow us to display integers base 10 base 16 or base 8 as well as to decide whether
we want the base prefix to show and in uppercase or lowercase.
We can also decide if we want positive numbers to show the plus symbol in front of the number.
Then we'll switch over to floating point numbers again.
We've already seen some of these manipulators used in the course.
We can use fixpoint we can set the precision we can show the number in scientific notation format.
And again we can decide whether we want trailing zeros printed and whether we want the plus symbol displayed.
Then we'll learn how to output numbers and strings in fields of fixed width and we can see how we can
left or right justify them within that field.
We'll also be able to fill empty space within the field to a specific character.
Finally there are several other formatters they can be very useful and we've already seen and used flush
can be useful when we want to be sure that we flush out any stream buffers but it doesn't add a new
line like inline does.
The last few we really won't talk about much but I'm including them here for your reference.
Skip whitespace no skip whitespace and whitespace are typically used with input streams.
When you have very specific use cases about dealing with whitespace.
OK so in the next video we'll start with the boolean formatters.
I'll see you there.